Requirements:
Charged Fidelity or SuperSplay gloves (30% battery or more)
nRF Connect for Desktop Software v3.9.0 or later installed:
Direct Download Link: https://www.nordicsemi.com/-/media/Software-and-other-downloads/Desktop-software/nRF-Connect-for-Desktop/3-10-0/nrfconnect-setup-3.10.0.exe
When installing nRF Connect, please make sure to also install the “JLink” software when prompted.
Download “Bluetooth Low Energy” and “Programmer” on the nRF Connect

“MoCap Pro Glove and Dongle Firmware (Legacy Process)” Package:
https://stretchsense.com/my-account/software-downloads/
Workstation with Bluetooth connectivity.
 

 

nRF Connect - Firmware Update Instructions:
 

Please close Hand Engine before you start

 

Resetting Dongle

Step 1: Ensure only one dongle is plugged into your PC and is showing the slow red flashing LED. If the dongle has a solid yellow/greenish light, push the bootloader button while it is connected (see below).

SuperSplay Glove Dongle - Reset (make sure the dongle is connected while pressing the button shown below)

 

Fidelity Glove Dongle - Reset (make sure the dongle is connected while pressing the button shown below)


Step 2: Open nRF Connect for Desktop.


Step 3: In the nRF Connect application, install and open “Bluetooth Low Energy”.



 

Step 4: Turn on one glove (make sure the other glove is off)


Step 5: After opening the “Bluetooth Low Energy” tool, click on Select Device at the top left.


 
Then, Select your dongle. It will identify as “Open DFU Bootloader”


 
Step 6: nRF Connect will prompt to “Confirm, Device must be programmed”. Click Yes. This will install the generic nRF Connect firmware onto the dongle:
 

 

When complete it will identify as follows, and the dongle light will be off.



 

Now you can proceed with the glove update from the same window, and then later on you can update the dongle.

 

Updating the Glove Firmware

Step 1: Turn on the glove and click on Start Scan under discovered devices from the same Bluetooth Low Energy window.




Step 2: Search for StretchSense and click on Connect.

Glove showing white flashing LED (Flashing white light): If the firmware update has previously failed on the glove, it will be stuck with a white slow flashing LED light. The process to recover the glove is the same, but in this step, the glove will identify as "Dfutarg". Connect to "Dfutarg" and continue the process as follows.



Step 3: Once connected, click on the DFU button next to Peripheral in the StretchSense box from the Connection Map. It looks like a little padlock inside an arrowed circle.



Step 4: Open the app_dfu.zip file downloaded from the MoCap Pro Glove and Dongle Firmware (Legacy Process) Package as advised in the requirements.



 
Step 5: Then click on Start DFU.


 
The glove light will flash white while the firmware update is happening. Once completed it will be flashing blue again.

Step 6: Turn off the first glove that was updated, and put it aside.

Step 7: Turn on the other glove, it should turn on with pulsing a slow blue light

Step 8: Press “Clear” and then "Start Scan" devices to select the other glove


 
Repeat the Process with the other Glove
 
Updating the Dongle Firmware

Step 1: Push the bootloader button while it is connected (see image below) so the red flashing light comes up.

SuperSplay Glove


Fidelity Glove



Step 2: Close the Bluetooth Low Energy window, and from the nRF Connect application, install and open the “Programmer” tool.



 
Step 3: Click on Select Device at the top left and select your dongle.
 

 
Step 4: Click on “Add HEX file” and select the .hex file downloaded from the MoCap Pro Glove and Dongle Firmware (Legacy Process) Package as advised in the requirements.


 
Step 5: Click on Write, this will install the StretchSense firmware to the dongle:
 


Step 6: When complete, nRF Connect will show this error in the console. This is normal and the update will be completed. The dongle light will be green.
 


Repeat the Process with the other Glove